File Format Data.md, before:

##Homework 1##

###File Format Data###

####Shape File:####
This is a digital format of storing the information of the points which will contribute for making a figure. Shape files are simple because they store the primitive geometric data types of points, lines, and polygons. They are of limited use without any attributes to specify what they represent. These files are used for identifying the geometry and special positioning of the point.

####OSM File: #####
OSM file has a primitive data values like Nodes, Ways and relations. Nodes will be uniquely represented by the unique ID of the node. Location of the Nodes will be determined by the latitudes and longitudes. For evaluating the data present in the file we use the DTD Schema file which will make sure the file present is in a relevant format.

####Geo JSON: #####
Geo JSON is an open standard format for encoding collections of simple geographical feature along with their non-spatial attributes using JavaScript Object Notation. The features include points (therefore addresses and locations), line strings (therefore streets, highways and boundaries), polygons (countries, provinces, tracts of land), and multi-part collections of these types. Geo JSON features need not represent entities of the physical world only; mobile routing and navigation apps, for example, might describe their service coverage using Geo JSON.


#####GPX Format:#####
GPX, or GPS Exchange Format, is an XML Schema designed as a common GPS data format for software applications. It can be used to describe waypoints, tracks, and routes. The format is open and can be used without the need to pay license fees. Its tags store location, elevation, and time and can in this way be used to interchange data between GPS devices and software packages. Such computer programs allow users, for example, to view their tracks, project their tracks on satellite images or other maps, annotate maps, and tag photographs with the geolocation in the Exif metadata.

#####KML File Format:#####
You can create KML files with the Google Earth user interface, or you can use an XML or simple text editor to enter "raw" KML from scratch. KML files and their related images (if any) can be compressed using the ZIP format into KMZ archives. To share your KML and KMZ files, you can e-mail them, host them locally for sharing within a private internet, or host them publicly on a web server. Just as web browsers display HTML files, Earth browsers such as Google Earth display KML files. Once you've properly configured your server and shared the URL (address) of your KML files, anyone who's installed Google Earth can view the KML files hosted on your public web server.

####NMEA File Format:####
The National Marine Electronics Association (NMEA) has developed a specification that defines the interface between various pieces of marine electronic equipment. The standard permits marine electronics to send information to computers and to other marine equipment. The idea of NMEA is to send a line of data called a sentence that is totally self-contained and independent from other sentences. There are standard sentences for each device category and there is also the ability to define proprietary sentences for use by the individual company. All of the standard sentences have a two letter prefix that defines the device that uses that sentence type.

####CSV File Format:####
A comma-separated values (CSV) (also sometimes called character-separated values, because the separator character does not have to be a comma) file stores tabular data (numbers and text) in plain-text form. Plain text means that the file is a sequence of characters, with no data that has to be interpreted instead, as binary numbers. A CSV file consists of any number of records, separated by line breaks of some kind; each record consists of fields, separated by some other character or string, most commonly a literal comma or tab. Usually, all records have an identical sequence of fields.

####QGIS:#####
QGIS is open source software package and QGIS offers many common GIS functionalities provided by core features and plugins. A short summary of six general categories of features and plugins is presented below, followed by first insights into the integrated Python console.

####GPSBABEL:####
GPSBabel is a cross-platform, free software to transfer routes, tracks, and waypoint data to and from consumer GPS unit, and to convert between over a hundred types of GPS data formats.[1] It has a command-line interface and a graphical interface for windows, OS X, and Linux users.

Commit message:

Update File Format Data.md
Added content to the file

File Format Data.md, after:

##Homework 1##

###File Format Data###

####Shape File:####
This is a digital format of storing the information of the points which will contribute for making a figure. Shape files are simple because they store the primitive geometric data types of points, lines, and polygons. They are of limited use without any attributes to specify what they represent. These files are used for identifying the geometry and special positioning of the point.

####OSM File: #####
OSM file has a primitive data values like Nodes, Ways and relations. Nodes will be uniquely represented by the unique ID of the node. Location of the Nodes will be determined by the latitudes and longitudes. For evaluating the data present in the file we use the DTD Schema file which will make sure the file present is in a relevant format.

####Geo JSON: #####
Geo JSON is an open standard format for encoding collections of simple geographical feature along with their non-spatial attributes using JavaScript Object Notation. The features include points (therefore addresses and locations), line strings (therefore streets, highways and boundaries), polygons (countries, provinces, tracts of land), and multi-part collections of these types. Geo JSON features need not represent entities of the physical world only; mobile routing and navigation apps, for example, might describe their service coverage using Geo JSON.


#####GPX Format:#####
GPX, or GPS Exchange Format, is an XML Schema designed as a common GPS data format for software applications. It can be used to describe waypoints, tracks, and routes. The format is open and can be used without the need to pay license fees. Its tags store location, elevation, and time and can in this way be used to interchange data between GPS devices and software packages. Such computer programs allow users, for example, to view their tracks, project their tracks on satellite images or other maps, annotate maps, and tag photographs with the geolocation in the Exif metadata.

#####KML File Format:#####
You can create KML files with the Google Earth user interface, or you can use an XML or simple text editor to enter "raw" KML from scratch. KML files and their related images (if any) can be compressed using the ZIP format into KMZ archives. To share your KML and KMZ files, you can e-mail them, host them locally for sharing within a private internet, or host them publicly on a web server. Just as web browsers display HTML files, Earth browsers such as Google Earth display KML files. Once you've properly configured your server and shared the URL (address) of your KML files, anyone who's installed Google Earth can view the KML files hosted on your public web server.

####NMEA File Format:####
The National Marine Electronics Association (NMEA) has developed a specification that defines the interface between various pieces of marine electronic equipment. The standard permits marine electronics to send information to computers and to other marine equipment. The idea of NMEA is to send a line of data called a sentence that is totally self-contained and independent from other sentences. There are standard sentences for each device category and there is also the ability to define proprietary sentences for use by the individual company. All of the standard sentences have a two letter prefix that defines the device that uses that sentence type.

####CSV File Format:####
A comma-separated values (CSV) (also sometimes called character-separated values, because the separator character does not have to be a comma) file stores tabular data (numbers and text) in plain-text form. Plain text means that the file is a sequence of characters, with no data that has to be interpreted instead, as binary numbers. A CSV file consists of any number of records, separated by line breaks of some kind; each record consists of fields, separated by some other character or string, most commonly a literal comma or tab. Usually, all records have an identical sequence of fields.

####WKT File Format:#####
Well-known text (WKT) is a text markup language for representing vector geometry objects on a map, spatial reference systems of spatial objects and transformations between spatial reference systems. A binary equivalent, known as well-known binary (WKB) is used to transfer and store the same information on databases, such as PostGIS, Microsoft SQL Server and DB2. The formats were originally defined by the Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) and described in their Simple Feature Access and Coordinate Transformation Service specifications.

###Software List:###

####ArcGis Software:####
ArcGis Software is used to create, share, and manage geographic data, maps, and analytical models using desktop and server applications. Deploy GIS across your organization and on the web.

##ArcGis Software Modules:##
GIS Professionals: GIS Professionals can create and manage data, maps and analytical models. They can then extend the reach of their work by sharing what they create across their organization.

Location Analytics: Location Analytics offers a way to add a geographic dimension to your business analytics systems. Make informed decisions by visualizing critical information on a map.

Developers: Developers can add mapping to web, mobile, and desktop applications using a choice of languages.


####QGIS Software:#####
QGIS is open source software package and QGIS offers many common GIS functionalities provided by core features and plugins. A short summary of six general categories of features and plugins is presented below, followed by first insights into the integrated Python console.

####GPSBABEL Software:####
GPSBabel is a cross-platform, free software to transfer routes, tracks, and waypoint data to and from consumer GPS unit, and to convert between over a hundred types of GPS data formats.[1] It has a command-line interface and a graphical interface for windows, OS X, and Linux users.

####GDAL Software:#####
GDAL(Geospatial Data Abstraction Library) is a translator library for raster and vector geospatial data formats that is released under an X/MIT style Open Source license by the Open Source Geospatial Foundation. As a library, it presents a single raster abstract data model and vector abstract data model to the calling application for all supported formats. It also comes with a variety of useful command line utilities for data translation and processing.
